---
layout: post
title: "Office365"
excerpt: "The not so seamlessly integrated office suite you think you know."
tags: [microsoft, office365]
image:
  feature: 
  credit: 
  creditlink: 
---

Now I've been known to bag on Microsoft about them not being open enough, their server software is not what it should be, etc. Those that know me also know that I appreciate value and hold no grudge on whether it is open source or not. As a business when we need to get things done we firstly look at the open solutions and if we do not find something available then we look at proprietary and developing our own as alternatives. This has worked wonders for us and has enabled us to cut costs in many situations.

Office365 is a different kind of beast. It offers several services ranging from email, document management to social networking. There is however an overwhelming feeling that these technologies instead of being built to function together seamlessly were cobbled together and now microsoft is looking at ways to make them feel as if they were designed together.

It has been nagging at me for some time to try and develop something that would mimic office365, on a much smaller scale mind you but that something would be seamleslly integrated. It would something simple and not complex as compared to microsoft. It would get out of your to let you get things done.

My premise is that not everyone needs all the features (bloatware) that microsoft office365 provides. A quick poll amongst friends and co-workers seems to confirm my point. I've got the basics of a helpdesk/incident managmeent system in place which to a large degree respects the keep it simple principle. Adding alongside of it an email service, irc/xmpp chat, document managment (markdown seems to be awesome) and simple wiki should point us in the right direction. For some of the more "enterprisey" features such as video chat and screen sharing I am sure there are some open sourcee variants out there that are just waiting to be noticed.

I think such a product/service would do well for small companies and professionals that are not locked into excel and microsoft formats. I think this is something I will start looking into fairly soon.